Did you know...
In the days before the Colleges of Magic ruled on limiting Wizard assistance to
teams, games were awash with magic. Who could forget the infamous 2472
Quagmire Incident when rampant spellcasting caused the Bright Crusaders’
entire stadium to sink into the earth? The Necromancer’s Broadcasting Circle,
the Crystal Ball Service, the Association of Broadcasting Conjurers, the Wolf
Network, and the Broadcasting Brotherhood of Casters all banded together to
force the Colleges of Magic to make the other magical guilds toe the line on a
limit to magical interference in the game. Not only was the Cabalvision signal
being disturbed, but the game itself was in danger of being ruined, and there are
large piles of gold in Blood Bowl broadcasting!

Nowadays, the Wizards have taken a more enlightened attitude, preferring to
give their team a sudden advantage at a strategic moment, rather than allow
sorcery to dominate the game entirely.

1#
Did you know...
Wizards are not always able to cast spells
safely from the sidelines.  In 2501, an Albion
league started a 2nd division that prohibited 
spellcasting from off the pitch. This meant 
that Wizards had to take the pitch as on-
pitch spellcasters. Many fans travel to
games in this division of the Midgard Blood
Bowl League to see just how well Wizards
stand up when a raving Blood Bowl star is 
screaming down the pitch at them. The
sights and sounds of frying bolts of lightning and sizzling fireballs followed
by the snapping of a Wizard’s spine like a twig have delighted fans of all
ages so much that the commissioner of the league has no plans to
overturn the ruling despite several petitions from the Colleges of Magic to
do so.
 
2#
Did you know...
Spike! Magazine's number 1 All-
time Worst Player Award goes to 
'Speccy' McGroan of the Evil Gits - 
one of those truly incompetent 
cretins that Blood Bowl needs if it 
is to retain its prime-time status. 
Speccy played during one season 
(2488 - 2489) but over that year 
he managed to fumble the ball 
over 30 times, averaging more 
than two fumbles per match. 
Speccy's finest hour, however, 
was in his final match against the 
Champions of Death when he 
managed to fumble the ball a 
record nine times before he was 
pulled off (and then reportedly pulled apart!) by the Evil Gits head coach, Bargull 
Whipdeath. Asked about Speccy being cut from the team, coach Whipdeath said 
" 'e diserfed it, so I cut 'im from 'ere to 'ere". 
 
The rumours of Speccy's demise appear to be greatly exaggerated though and 
true connoisseurs of the running game may see Speccy's "talents" again on the 
pitch. An undercover reporter discovered that what actually happened at the end 
of the match against the Champions of Death was that Whipdeath was paid 
20,000 gold pieces by the Middenheim Marauders for Speccy … to go play for 
the Chaos All-Stars.

3#
Did you know... 
That Bob Bifford has been suspended from commentating the opening game of 
the season for 'excessive violence'. That's right fans, when he was a guest 
commentator at the Sticky Bun trophy  last year between the Greenfield 
Grasshuggers and Bluebay Crammers he made a passing comment that the 
stadium lacked 'a nice pair of tasty buns' and the place erupted! 
As the Halflings rioted upon hearing there were no buns for sale, the whole of 
Altdorf was shaken to the core as Halflings tore down bakeries and sweet shops 
in protest. When the calm settled there were 74 fatalities (including 4 shop 
keepers and a baker), Bob Bifford was ordered by the NAF to serve a 
suspension of the first game and pay the affected shopkeepers a large portion of 
his first match pay of the season (which rumours say comes in at a 6 figure 
sum!).  
 
Bifford only replied that he'd never commentate another Sticky Bun trophy as he 
"couldn't even get me 'ands on a pair of juicy melons after the game"... 
presumably the Halflings got the greengrocers as well. 

4#
Did you know...                 
In 2407 the Chaos All-Stars only loss came 
against the lowly Skaven team the Rotten Rats, 
coached by the now infamous Jaunt Maddening. 
With the All-Stars up 6-0 at the half, the game 
was so ugly that the  Cabalvision broadcast 
switched over to a production about a little girl 
living in the outskirts of Bretonnia. An amazing turnaround occurred when 
a Skaven runner by the name of Kweethul decided he did not want to stay 
on the pitch as the All-Stars ruthlessly pounded his team-mates. Instead, 
he ran through the gutters leading into the stadium, and amazingly 
emerged in his end zone. After catching the second half kick-off, he ran 
back into the gutters, came out on the other side of the pitch, and started 
the Rats' 7 touchdown run. Kweethul's glory was short-lived as the Chaos 
All-Stars discovered after the match that sewer water is an excellent rat 
marinade. Even though stadiums now rarely have sewers accessible from 
the pitch, the fastest Skaven players are still called gutter runners, both as  
tribute to Kweethul and  a testament to how hard they are to get a hold of!

5#
Did you know... 
that bribery is now so 
prevalent amongst referees 
that the Referees and Allied 
Rulekeepers Guild (RARG) 
has created rules concerning 
where, when and how one 
can accept a bribe. RARG 
has set official union rates 
for bribing a referee. Under 
an agreement signed last 
season, clubs are not 
allowed to offer less than the 
going rate. RARG is even 
considering appointing a 
second bunch of referees to 
govern the conduct of RARG 
just to keep bribery properly 
controlled. 
 
6#
Did you know... 
While the Chaos All-Stars are the most famous team with an unusual 
mix of players compared to other teams of the same race, several other 
very famous Blood Bowl teams have been composed of a unique cast 
of characters. 
 
Evil Gits: The Evil Gits are an evil team made up of mix of evil 
players.  They've been known to field evil Hobgoblins, evil Orcs, evil 
Dark Elves, evil Skaven, evil Goblins, evil Ogres, evil Half-Orcs, or in 
fact any other players just so long as they are Evil! The Gits are 
followed everywhere by their evil unofficial supporters club, the Evil Gits 
Unofficial Supporters Club, who are, if anything, even more evil than the 
evil team they evilly support! 
 
Heroes of Law: The Heroes of Law are everything that the Evil Gits 
are not. This team frequently has Human, Dwarf, Elf, and Halfling 
players that play for the team without pay. The players hope to show 
the world a better way by honest strategic play on the pitch without 
resorting to fouling or bribes. The Heroes of Law are known throughout 
the realms for their charity matches and for key players missing games 
because they are volunteering for some other worthy cause that day. 
 
Motley Horde: This mix of misfits, cast-offs, and flat-out lazy players 
comprise an interesting team. Many of the team's players may hang 
around for practice, but then skip the game or vice versa. The coach, 
Kul-Blood Conn, never knows from week to week who will show up, and 
his game plan must change radically depending on the players 
available. One week he may have six Chaos Dwarfs, four Skaven and a 
couple Dark Elf players show up, while the next game he may be faced 
with seven Hobgoblins, a mutated Chaos Warrior and five Snotlings!  

7#
Did you know... 
Not all Blood Bowlers out there love and worship Nuffle. There are a few out 
there who dislike him and curse his name. The Nuffle Blasphemer's Association 
(NBA) was started by Torg the Blasphemer, coach of Torg's Terminators, when 
his star player unexpectedly died in the league semi-final. With the game on the 
line, Sig "the Butcher” Thundersmack was sprinting toward the end zone for the 
winning touchdown when he seemed to trip over the goal line itself resulting in 
his neck being broken. The opposition was able to recover the ball and pull off 
an unbelievable scoring play that sent them to the league final instead. Torg 
cursed Nuffle for his fickleness and started up the NBA, which has grown over 
the years to include a number of players and coaches who have become 
disenchanted with Nuffle. You may see them at Blood Bowl games in their long 
black robes holding up signs denouncing the Blood Bowl god. Most people 
consider them a bunch of complete wackos and tend to ignore them. 

8#
Did you know...  
Witch Elves first appeared on the 
Blood Bowl pitch not long after the 
collapse of the NAF when Nikk 
Three-horn ran away with the NAF 
treasury and the entire Darkside 
Cowboys cheerleading section. 
Disgusted that the cheerleaders 
could run away with a non Dark Elf, 
the Witch Elf priestesses of 
Naggaroth formed their very own 
Blood Bowl team to prove that not 
all female Dark Elves are so easily 
swayed by the lure of gold. The 
'Deadly Nightshades', as they were 
known, made an instant impact as they dismantled just about every team 
that stood in their path in their first season. Sadly, however, the required 
ritual blood baths and sacrifices  the Witches must perform back in 
Naggaroth for the Dark Elf god Khaine caused them to miss the semi-
final of the 2490 Blood Bowl tournament.  
The Deadly Nightshades never quite managed to repeat the phenomenal 
success of that season but they certainly left a mark on the Blood Bowl 
world as many Dark Elf teams now field a Witch Elf or two as regular 
players on the squad.  
The Nightshades also hold two remarkable records, not only do they hold 
the record for most consecutive games played to a full stadium, they 
have also never been refused a game. While the coaches of the 
opposition may claim that it’s because they never refuse a challenge and 
are always willing to help out young ladies in need, a better guess might 
be that it’s because thigh length boots and revealing uniforms bring in 
the crowds (and the opposing players). 

9#
Did you know... 
The origin of the first 
Troll Slayer in Blood 
Bowl occurred on the 
Dwarf Giants team.  
In 2465 Stout 
Ironfist, a star blitzer 
for the Giants, was 
given the task of 
protecting the King’s 
son during a match 
against the 
Lowdown Rats. 
During one drive the 
Rats managed to hit 
Stout in the face with 
a custard pie. By the 
time he was able to 
clear his eyes the 
King’s son had been 
killed by the Rat’s 
Troll! Stout flew into 
a frenzy, grabbed 
the King’s son’s horned helm and swung it with such fury that he 
decapitated the Troll.  
 
Stout was so ashamed from the double blow of allowing himself to fall for 
the custard pie trick and failing the King’s orders to protect his son that he 
painted his face and partially shaved his head as a mark of humility. He 
also dyed his hair orange as a mark of respect to the famous red beard of 
the King’s son. Stout continued playing for the Giants, attacking the 
largest and toughest opponents he could find in the hopes of finding 
death to release him from his shame. A triple team block by the ogre 
Morg, the troll Bork, and the minotaur Zy-Nox in 2471 during a match 
against the Chaos All-Stars finally ended his fanatical career. Based on 
his legend, Dwarfs that incur massive shame for actions during Blood 
Bowl matches follow Stout’s path in their efforts toward release and 
redemption through reckless acts of on-pitch violence! 

10#
Did you know... 
Many of the all-time Chaos great teams had Mutants: players with many 
more than their fair share of limbs, eyes, heads or other bodily organs. 
Past masters include Margoth Doomgrin, whose body emitted sprays of 
soporific musk that caused opponents to practically fall asleep on the 
pitch and whose head bore an uncanny resemblance to a ball – his final 
decapitation by a Black Orc was messy but allowed the Gouged Eye to 
run in two touchdowns with a single play; team captain Snake Sanders 
whose hypnotic gaze granted to him after a Chaos Cup victory proved his 
downfall one match when he caught sight of himself in the Eagles’ 
sideline dressing mirror and spent the rest of the game rooted to the spot; 
'Spider' Smith, the six armed star catcher of the Chaos All-Stars; and 
Ruddog Ironhead who was the Chaos All-Stars leading blitzer for three 
seasons until his massive armoured body and razor sharp metallic claws 
proved to be an excellent lightning rod during a stormy game with the 
Valkyries.
 

11#
Did you know... 
That the most famous Skaven 
Player of all time was Tarsh 
Surehands. Tarsh had two heads 
and four arms, features which 
allowed him to become the leading 
pass receiver in the league. Sadly, 
in a crucial wild card game against 
a Slann team, the Lustria 
Croakers, a missed pass led to his 
two heads having a violent 
argument, and before anyone 
could stop him he had strangled 
himself to death.  
 
12#
Did you know... 
Eldril Sidewinder is the only Elf freelance 
star who offers his services to every Elven 
race. Eldril used to play for the Galadrieth 
Gladiators until they won the Chaos Cup 
against the Underworld Creepers in 2495. 
As Eldril scored the winning touchdown in 
the final seconds, he felt the touch of the 
chaos god Tzeentch who was watching the 
game. Tzeentch gifted Eldril with a stare 
capable of mesmerising opponents, but this 
gift came with a price. Tzeentch is the god 
of random chaos and he took special delight in mutating an Elf as Elves 
normally avoided the Chaos Cup. Tzeentch wiped Eldril's mind clean so 
that he remembers nothing of his life before the Chaos Cup. Eldril is 
cursed so that each morning when he awakes he believes he is a 
member of the Elven race playing nearest to him. He could believe he is a 
black hearted Dark Elf or walk out to the dawning sun, hug a tree and 
wonder who was brewing poison in his kitchen.
 
13#
Did you know... 
That the 2503 season saw the retirement of one 
of Blood Bowl's favourite killers? Nobbla 
Blackwart, after 8 great seasons freelancing 
between teams, finally hung up the chainsaw - 
Choppy. Choppy was a great chainsaw having 
lopped off more heads than any other chainsaw in 
history (including a massive 14 decapitations in 
2501 against the Icecastle Wolves).  
 
Whether it was rain, snow, sun or a perfect day, 
ol' Choppy would always be guaranteed to start 
and give the fans something to cheer at. Thank 
you Choppy for your services to Blood Bowl  
 
Sadly for Blood Bowl players however, Nobbla Blackwart continues to infest the 
Blood Bowl pitch with his new chainsaw 'Rippy'. 


14#
Did you know... 
The Big Moot sandwich has become the number one consumed 
concession at Blood Bowl stadiums.  The Halfling owners of McMurty's 
continue to reap the benefits of an exclusive concessions contract with 
several of the larger Old World stadiums. The aroma of those three all-
meat patties, Hot Pot  sauce, lettuce, cheese, onions, pickles on a 
caraway seed bun has lured many a fan (and sometimes the players!)  
away from the game to satisfy a Big Moot Attack. McMurty's reminds all 
Blood Bowl fans: if you gotta eat, its 'Gotta Be McMurty's'.

15#
Did you know... 
The Kishago Werebears were the 
first team to feature werebears on 
their roster. The Norse team were 
based close to a werebear 
settlement and used them instead of 
the more common Ulfwerener 
(Nordic werewolves) found in 
Norsca. Sadly the Werebears were 
forced to disband in 2471 after the 
team was wiped out in a famous 
match against the Darkside 
Cowboys. But to this day, Norse 
teams have been known to take to 
the pitch with werebears instead of Ulfwerener. Both of these Nordic 
werekin are virtually identical in ability and the amount of carnage they 
create on the pitch. They are incredibly strong, naturally tough, and 
possessed by a terrifying bloodthirsty frenzy. While this frenzied state 
which consumes the Ulfwerener and the werebears would usually only 
last for the length of the match, you just have to watch out that the frenzy 
doesn't go longer as it will seriously interfere with the post-game 
autograph signing, press interviews and then there is the mess on the 
team bus afterwards... 

16#
Did you know... 
That Hanse Kohl holds the record 
for most players sent off in a match 
with a maximum of 32 players! It 
happened in a grudge match 
between the Gouged Eye and 
Dwarf Warhammerers in 2474 
(Trivia Fans will remember these 
two faced each other in Blood 
Bowl XIII in 2473). This record is 
made all the more remarkable 
considering the two teams’ history 
of 'removing' referees that interfere 
with the game plan of said teams.  
 
And the reason the ref got away 
with sending all the players off? 
The day before he had been refereeing a Nurgle’s Rotters vs. Decaying Disorder 
match in the Putrid Stump Trophy quarter finals and had contracted Nurgle’s 
Rot. Sadly Hanse never managed to referee another match afterwards as his 
arms fell off (then his legs, heads, tentacles…) though he will be known for his 
famous post-match interview when  he managed to infect fourteen news 
reporters and one Cabalvision cameraman.  

------------------------------------
      Did you know... 
In the early days of Blood Bowl, the 
Wardancers - a travelling troupe of Wood 
Elf performance artists faithful to the 
trickster god Loec - would sometimes 
perform sacred 'inspirational' dances during 
the half time show. The dances were long 
and ‘artistic’ which often did not go down 
well with the opposition. 
 
During one fateful match between the Athelorn Avengers and Orcland 
Raiders the Orcs quickly tired of the rituals. They wanted to get on with 
the game, and that meant getting rid of the dancers! With a roar the Orcs 
rushed out onto the pitch for what they were sure would be a quick warm 
up for the second half. Much to the Orcs surprise the Elven Wardancers 
proved very hard to lay a hand on. Worse still, not only were they still 
dancing, but they were actually clearly winning the fight. It was a disaster 
for the Raiders, as they lost several key players to injury without having 
so much as scratched a single dancer. As a result the Avengers finished 
the game virtually unopposed and won by the largest margin in their 
history. 
 
Word spread of the event and Wood Elf teams were quick to realize the 
value of having Wardancers as players and it took only three weeks for 
every member of that troupe - including a young Jordell Freshbreeze - to 
sign a lucrative playing contract. Wardancers have been key players in 
every successful Wood Elf team since.
 

-----------------------------------
     Did you know... 
That last year, the Galadrieth Gladiators High Elf team accumulated a record 
853 passes in 24 games without an interception, eventually succumbing to fellow 
High Elves - the Caledor Dragons (who remarkably also suffered their first 
interception of last year in the same game after 620 passes). 
 
In fact, many High Elf teams suffer a very low interception rate. While the High 
Elves point to their natural skill and ability at the passing game, we're more 
inclined to believe the bags of gold sitting at the side of the High Elf dugouts 
awaiting any opponent who drops an interception against one of their star 
throwers might be the cause. Still when a High Elf team faces another High Elf 
team, all bets (well bribes) are off, it has proven very difficult to bribe a snobbish 
High Elf who is already stinking rich. 

----------------------------------
     Did you know... 
The High Elf team, the Dragon Princes, 
was made up exclusively of Elf Princes 
and High Lords, who were so haughty 
and proud that they refused to play 
anyone who was not of equal rank.  
 
Consequently they never got to play 
anyone at all, and were disbanded after 
five seasons without playing a single 
match!
 
-----------------------------------
      Did you know... 
Storm Giants have had a colourful (mostly blood red) record in Blood 
Bowl. 
 
Storm Giant Galak Starscraper became the first referee to enter the Top 
10 of the season’s Kill/Maim tables. He was also a key part in the 
experimental ‘eye in the sky’ telepathic vision system, when he carried a 
sorcerer on his shoulder who transmitted what he saw to crystal balls 
and magic mirrors all over the Known World.  This experiment ended 
when, during one particularly exciting game the sorcerer fell off Galak’s 
shoulder only to be impaled on the helmet spikes of a passing Halfling 
player. This incident is also remembered as one of the few recorded 
instances of a Halfling-induced fatality situation in a Blood Bowl game! 
 
The tallest player ever to stride onto a Blood Bowl pitch was Galak’s little 
brother Gurk Cloud-Scraper, Storm Giant half-back for the Asgard 
Ravens. Standing as tall as nine men, Gurk played in only one match 
before being barred for life for excessive violence after a game with the 
Halfling Greenfield Grasshuggers team which included an incident where 
equally legendary Big Jobo Hairyfeet, opposing captain of the 
Grasshuggers team, was rather suddenly and drastically reduced in 
height after being stepped on by Gurk. 
 
The Asgard Ravens use of Storm Giants allowed them to exploit a 
loophole in the Blood Bowl rules for one season until the NAF clarified 
the rules. A Blood Bowl pitch according to the original rules must 
measure 100 by 60 paces, but it did not specify which race’s pace is 
used.  Teams playing away against the Asgard Ravens that year would 
find that the Storm Giant’s league long paces would mean that a normal 
player could travel for days across the Ravens’ pitch just to get from the 
bench to the coin-toss! 

---------------------------------
      Did you know... 
A sizable proportion of fans look 
upon a Blood Bowl match as an 
opportunity to cause as much 
mayhem and destruction in the 
stands as possible. Indeed, many 
fans feel that something should be 
done about the small minority of 
peaceful fans that turn up for 
games just to watch, and spoil the 
fun for everyone else. 
 
---------------------------------
     Did you know... 
Morg 'n' Thorg refuses any offer to play for a team where he might be 
playing along side Ramtut III. When Morg first started freelancing his 
services, he and Ramtut were hired to play for the Champions of Death 
against the Asgard Ravens. Head Coach Tomolandry believed he was a 
an powerful enough Necromancer to raise an Ogre from the dead and 
had a nefarious plan for Morg. Tomolandry bribed the Ravens to focus 
their blocks and fouls on Morg and Ramtut was paid extra to 'accidently' 
throw a block or two Morg's way in the hopes of a fatal result. After the 
3rd bone-crushing hit by his 'team-mate', Morg realized he had been 
duped and in a rage literally tore through most of the Champions players, 
coaching staff, cheerleaders, and reserve players as he exited the pitch.
 

---------------------------------
      Did you know... 
The long, long history of Blood Bowl is littered with the corpses of teams 
which – for one reason or another – didn’t survive to play another day. 
Some run out of gold, which is understandable, because Blood Bowl is 
an expensive game involving vast sums of gold – bribing all those 
referees and buying all those spellcasters requires a fortune when the 
costs are added up over the whole year. Some run out of fans; this is 
also understandable, because Blood Bowl fans are notoriously fickle. A 
team which loses every game in a row for seven years can expect to 
have its gate substantially reduced. In some cases, fans have taken 
even more drastic action to stop a downward slide in fortunes: in 2473 
the Streissen Vampires were systematically put out of their misery by 
unhappy fans after they came last in every category for three years 
running. Worst of all though, some teams run out of players. This 
happens rather a lot. Some of the many teams no longer with us include: 
 
Shortstuff Scurriers: A Halfling team, the Scurriers first entered the 
NFC Central Division in 2479. Unluckily, though, they lost their first 34 
games, and were disbanded in a wave of disgust! (2479-2480) 
 
Haffenheim Hornets: Eaten by mistake at a pre-match dinner for the 
Oldheim Ogres. They were mistaken for slaves dressed in Hornets gear, 
whom the Ogres were to consume to bring them luck. This time it did, in 
fact, because the incident gave the Oldheim team a clear pass to the 
next round. (2417-2460) 
 
Wuppertal Wotans: Every single member of this long-running team, 
including the owner (who was at home in bed at the time), was very 
suspiciously struck by lightning two minutes before the start of an 
important semi-final versus the Chaos All Stars. (2483)
 

----------------------------------
     Did you know... 
Helmut Wulf, the  tough as nails and madly sadistic chainsaw swinging star, now
owns two large mansions thanks to his 'A little off the top, me Lord?' commercial
for the 'Ye Olde Barbershop' franchise. He summers in the Border Principalities,
and holes up for the winter in Lustria. Helmut keeps busy and close to these
expensive properties by hiring himself out to any of the local teams near his
current homestead even if it means sharing blood baths with the Vampires in the
summer and bashing heads with the Lizardmen in the winter. 


----------------------------
     Did you know... 
That the former Skink international 'Diegi Maratona' has been attempting to 
come out of retirement. Sadly the little Skink wonder that dazzled us all with his 
amazing dodges and runs in the 2486 Blood Bowl season for the Slashers has 
almost tripled in weight and now resembles a little green pudding due to his 
sugar cane addiction.  
 
Running up huge debts (rumour has it that he challenged Tzeentch, Chaos God 
of change/chance, to a game of dice), Diegi has been forced to recover his 
career to get his finances in order. If the Skink can clean up his sugar cane 
addiction then perhaps he'll be a surprise star of this season. But will anyone be 
willing to sign him for the huge fee he's demanding?  

------------------------------
     Did you know... 
That the Lowdown Ratz experimented in training this year with a new player, a 
giant black war wolf! The wolf ate six  team players, seriously injured four 
assistant coaches, crippled the apothecary and ran away into the swamps with 
the only ball the Ratz have; effectively ending any chance of a Blood Bowl final 
appearance... not that they had a Halfling’s hope in the Chaos All-Stars' 
bathroom anyway. 
 